Okay.
Thank you. Excellent.
And welcome back before the committee.
Nice to help you along. Thank you, Brian.
Early on a Thursday morning.
Yeah. After a late night. It's all good.
Yeah, exactly. That's right.
Right. We are live streaming this session
and, uh, again, thanks for joining us.
We look forward to your introductory comments in relation
to the, uh, customs, levies
and other matters amendment bill
that the committee is currently considering.
Uh, we've received a range of submissions on it,
but certainly welcome your insights.
Uh, we have 15 minutes sit down
and there may be question for members to include.
Oh, I'll just do a, a brief opening remarks just
to put some context around.
Um, the bill is aimed to improve, uh,
government revenue collection on goods
by making collection fairer,
more efficient and more effective.
This bill makes small
but necessary amendments to improve three types
of revenue correction relating to goods.
Um, part one, which means the Customer Excise Act,
introducing a levy regime
and practice, this will enable customs
to replace its existing goods fees with levies.
In particular, it will enable customs
to recover ship related costs
through a new commercial vessel
charge recently approved by cabinet.
Uh, the second part, which amends the Waste Minimization Act
2008 will Clar 2008, will clarify
that regulations can spec specify agencies to collect funds,
uh, fees to fund product stewardship.
If customs becomes a collection agency, it would be able
to collect product stewardship fees at the same time
as other revenue through its integrated
duty collection system.
At the moment, those are being collected by Ministry
of Environment, and so it would create some efficiencies in
that space, particularly around, uh, the ability
to have deferred payment structures
through the custom system.
Um, part three means the Goods and Services Tax Act 1985
and the customs excise, um, act 2018 will benefit
some importers returning imported goods
and to that do not meet specifications or are faulty.
So it means when they return things, they're not having
to pay GST twice.
Um, so it gives them GST cost recovery.
It'll make it easier to get GST refunds on those fund those
goods when they are replaced by the supplier
or sent overseas under warranty
and then return to New Zealand.
The bill will address changes in business
and consumer patterns as more people
and organizations directly import goods
and build in flexibility
and agility to adapt to future changes such
as the new product stewardship schemes
recently decided by government.
And I'd like to thank the committee
for their consideration of the bill.
Excellent. Alright. Questions from members,
Uh, minister might,
might this be considered just a new tax bill?
No, it's, so effectively it's not, it's not a new tax.
It's a re um, readjusting how, um, fees are claim.
So it's not a, you know,
if you understood a tax is a gaining revenue, these fees
and levies relate specifically to the costs incurred, um,
for the services provided.
So, so therefore, uh, is this a cost neutral
or indeed do you think increased revenues
likely to come? There
Will be increased revenue.
So, so the objective is to ensure that the costs
recovered relate to where the costs are incurred.
So we're not increasing across the board.
So where there is additional cost increased, um, in terms
of the amount of work we do, um,
and you know, as you appreciate intelligence gathering
and analytics around risk mitigation, um,
the costs will be aligned to where they're incurred.
So it's more balanced structure.
So, so before, before,
before they go up, will the new agency oversee
by Mr.
S, will it have the ability to check the, the, the, uh,
I guess the justification for any changes in revenue,
The regulation ministry that's been, um, proposed?
Yeah, so at this, this stage it's relates specifically
to the customs fees and levies.
In terms of the costs. It's not relating to any other,
um, regulatory changes.
It's just purely based on the services,
Because agency have the right to come in
and check that any increase in fees
that you are proposing are justified.
So the ministry has been fully consulted on proposals?
They have been, yes. And going forward,
because this is a yes enabling standard
Cabinet process will be consultation with the ministry
for regulation on changes to fees and living. And so
How often, how often are they likely to oversee
or come in and check?
Well, we would do a review every three years.
So three years, yes, that's our basic model,
But they're oversight might be more regular than that.
Uh, only only if the government so chooses so
that they can check that they checked their proposals
as they've gone forward in front of capa.
Uh, if they choose to do anything more than that,
that's a government decision at some point
Because, because it's, we're just trying to understand
how they might operate the assumptions
that they would have a, a regular oversight
or more regular oversight of changes. And
Three, three years is, is a reasonable time period for
an agents for us to do our full review
and seems to be a reasonably regular timeframe
and consistent with what our stakeholder views of,
of fee charges are. Just on the,
Um, cost piece, I'm interested in
Understanding more around the waste minimization piece.
So currently collected by MFA,
do they charge a fee on across
recovery fee on the collection of that levy?
So yeah, that, and that's part of the challenges.
I, I'll get the officials talk to the official process,
but it's a pretty clunky process at the moment.
So it means if, if customs does become a collection agent,
then it would all be done in one process as opposed to
how it is at the moment where, you know, for example,
tires is the, is the one that's the issue at the moment.
Um, so it means that it would be collected at point
of entry and make it a bit cleaner. But the,
So would customs be able
to charge an additional cost of collection?
No, we don't. Coverage,
we don't include in our cost recovery, uh,
revenue collection that's crowdfund.
Right, okay. Sorry. Yeah.
One of the issues we heard from custom student annual
hearing on was the fact
that when they seize illegal tobacco, they then have
to pay the excise on that.
Uh, and, and there's certain, a significant deficit
'cause they've done a really good job of yeah.
Of, of catch catching that, but then of course,
which seems very circular
because it's money that we have to given to pay back to us,
which does this bill address that issue at all?
And is that something that was considered or is that
No, this bill doesn't address it,
but there is a piece of work around, you know,
changing the way that that is reported, how
and how it's accounted for.
So we don't end up with that deficit being carried
for something that we were never going to collect excise on.
Okay. So that that's in hand.
Yeah, that's in hand. Brilliant. Thank you.
That would, can I, um, if I could just go back
to the tires one for example, and, and has Zfa
provided advice to you on the issue of non-air barriers
and whether the imposition of an increased fee
related to recycling
or anything falls under NTP definition?
And we might pass this to our colleague Sean,
This is their policy.
Sure. Uh, sure. Sean from administration of the environment.
Um, so we, uh,
through the policy process in developing the regulations
for the entire scheme, uh, we had confirmation from
that it doesn't represent our children.
So that, that was done during the,
during the policy development,
So it wouldn't be counted for.
I, I appreciate and, and I'm sure we're able to do that.
The issue is one of, we hear figures in the committee here
around, you know, uh, what cost of NTVs are.
Yeah. And, and my view is that some
of those are over inflated depending on how you count 'em.
This would not be considered an
NTB for calculation purposes.
No. Okay.
So I'm just keen to delve into that tire one
as well and, and had some concerns from submitters
wanting to see clarity on how that process will occur
and whether there will be additional costs flowing through
to enabling customs to manage
that on behalf of, um, WMA instead
and how that then fits in
or correlates with the existing tariffs regime.
Because their concern is, as I read it anyway,
that the two systems don't necessarily
correlate in terms of a levy that's being charged first.
The customs tariff system,
they don't seamlessly integrating.
So how would that work in that example of the tire levers?
And perhaps it's a bit of, as I understand,
the lever's charged or meant to be charged on the weight
of tires, but when it gets through to the tariff regime,
it's the number of tires instead of the weight.
Is that your understanding of it as well?
Well, we do have, um, Hannah Soner online
who might be able to answer that question.
Uh, Hannah's been affected by the train Alex this morning,
which is why she's zooming in from the car.
Good morning. Uh, good morning. I hope you all hear me.
Okay. Uh, so in terms of the calculation
for the tire tariff code, you are right that it is, um,
there has been some feedback on the ability to,
or the kind of implications of, um, using,
changing the fee to a duty under
if customs were to collect it.
Um, the current calculation is weight based already.
It's just that the weight based, um, calculation is then
as closely aligned to the customs tariff system as possible.
Uh, there have been some challenges that have popped up with
that, and we're actually working on a separate process, um,
to investigate inequities, uh, in that space.
Uh, but in terms of going forward, any changes to,
um, how the tire stewardship fee is collected
or any future proposed product stewardship schemes would
need to go through a regulatory process
and full analysis done, um, before we,
and obviously, um, cabinet process, et cetera as well
before we would be able to make those, those changes.
And so that would be something
that would be considered on a scheme by scheme
or product by product basis.
At the time, reg regulations were developed,
we don't see any particular concerns with it.
We've, um, reviewed the, uh, kind of likely implications
and, um, customers can probably speak
to this in more detail if you, if you'd like a little bit
more information about some of those, um,
administrative penalties, for example.
But from our perspective, this isn't, um,
this isn't something that is a, is going
to be a huge problem and will be considered, um, if we look
to change the, um, fee to a duty
and for it to be collected by customs in the future.
Okay. No further questions.
Excellent. All right. Thank you very much for joining us.
Morning. Thank you. Good.